# Compound Embedded Forms

Right now, this is a pretty simple field. We have our top level form, and then each field below it is its own "Form" object. We now know that when you pass this into the template, all of those "Form" objects become "FormView" objects, but it's still just 2 levels, the "FormView" object on top, and the children "FormView" objects for each field; but it can get more complicated than that. To show you, go into the "GenusFormType," and down on the "firstDiscoveredAt," comment out the "widget" and "attr" options. Now, without the "widget" option, when you refresh, the date comes as 3 different drop-down fields, which I know is ugly, but it's really good for showing of a point. Now, if you click into the [profiler 00:00:51] for the form, you see something even more interesting: "firstDiscoveredAt" has a "+" field.

You see, "firstDiscoveredAt" is no longer a simple field, it's actually a field that consists of 3 subfields, "year," "month," and "day." Each of them is their own choice type. If you click on "firstDiscoveredAt," you'll also notice, under the "View Variables," that for the first time, a compound variable is set to "true." Now, we've seen that in a few places, but this is when "compound" is set to "true," when one field is actually not really its own field, it's just a holder, a parent, for subfields. In our template, when we call "form_row" on "genusForm.firstDiscoveredAt," what this actually does is it tries to render the parent field, sees that it consists of some subfields, and so, that calls "form_row" on each of those 3 subfields; and you end up with the whole nice structure.

If you want to, now, you can actually call "form_row" on each of those 3 individual fields, so ".year," ".month," and ".day;" but you might still want to call form ... "form_label" on "genusForm.firstDiscoveredAt," then you should probably keep calling "form_errors;" because when there's a validation error on the "firstDiscoveredAt" field, it's actually attached to that node of the field, as you can see there; so you want to make sure that you render its errors. If you go back now and refresh, you see basically the same thing, so the styling is lost because we're taking a little more control over what we're doing, but this is totally valid.
