# Role Hierarchy Impersonation

You have a lot of different sections on your site that need to be accessed by a lot of different people. Instead of using something like Role Admin, which describes the type of person that would have access to a section, you might instead use roles that more describe what is being accessed. In this case, we might use something like Role_Manage_Genus. The advantage of this is that, you can very quickly in the database give a specific user any set of given roles, to control exactly what they do and don't have access to. If you plan ahead in that way, it's going to give you more flexibility down the line.

The problem is that, a lot of times, you have one set of users. The Admin users, which maybe should have access to everything. Now all of a sudden, every time you add a new section to your side, you need to go into the database and make sure those users have this new role saved to them, or else they can't access that. That's kind of lame. I don't like it. Let's do something better.

In securing that YML, we're going to take advantage of something called Role Hierarchies. It's a very simple, really awesome idea. I add a new key called Role Hierarchy, and below that, we're going to say Role_Admin, and right here we're going to say Role_Manage_Genus. In other words, if anybody has Role_Admin, they should automatically have Role_Manage_Genus out of the box. Now we can just give the Admin users this role, and be good to go.

I'm actually going to comment that out temporarily. Go to slash Admin slash Genus and right now we get denied access, because our user has Role_Admin, doesn't have this new role. Then if we put the Role Hierarchy back and refresh, it works. Building on that, let me show you another really cool feature in Symphony Security System. It's called Impersonation.

Here's the idea. You get a message that say a certain user is seeing a bug on the site in their account area, or they're not seeing a link that you're looking to. What you really want to do is just log in as that user, and see what they're seeing. That's absolutely possible. Go onto your firewall, and add a new key called Switch_User, and set it to tilde to activate that system.

Now, on any page, you can say ?_Switch_User= and then the username of whoever you want to log into. In our case, weaverryan+5@gmail.com. Why is that the email address in our case? This actually goes back to your user provider system. We're using the built in entity user provider, and we told it that we want to identify by the email. This is the first time that this is actually coming into play. If we change that to something else, then we would actually identify ourselves by that up here.

If we hit enter though, access denied, because of course we can't let anybody in the system do this. Internally, this feature checks for a very specific role called Role Allowed To Switch. Our user needs to have that role in order to do this. That's no problem, because we have this role hierarchy, Role_Admin should be able to do anything. Role_Allowed_To_Switch. Then go back, refresh, and it almost works. Notice it's not a security problem anymore, it just says weaverryan space 5@gmail.com not found. This is just because I have the silly pluses inside of my email addresses, so this is looking like a space. I need to URL encode that, which is %3B. %3B is the URL encoded version of the plus symbol.

If we change that plus to %2B, boom, that switches us. We are now surfing around as weaverryan+5@gmail.com. Pretty awesome. Once you're done, you can go back with _Switch_User=_Exit . It's a special username, and then we're back as our user. Role_Allow_To_Switch, one of my favorite things.

