# Many to Many Fixtures

Let's go back to slash genus. These are all the genus that are coming from our fixtures, but none of them have any scientists yet. That makes sense, because our fixtures aren't creating this relationship ever. In fixtures.yml we have genus, we have users, but there's nothing to join them together. That's annoying, so I want to fix that. The question is, how do we do this? Well remember, the fixtures file is a very simple idea. You just put properties here and then when you run the fixtures, it sets the value on that property. It even has this super power where you can use the @ syntax to reference another object and it will actually take that object and set it on that property.

In this case, it's no different. We want to take our genus object and set an array of user objects on the genus scientist property. In other words, just add a key here called genus scientists, colon, and then left square bracket which is the array syntax in YAML. Then we can just say something like @user_aquanaut_1 which is coming from the bottom of this file where we have ... Oh, user.aquanaut_1. Let me change that to user.aquanaut_1 and then let's add a second one. @user.aquanaut_5. It's not very random but let's go over and run [inaudible 00:01:50]. Background fixtures load. Let's see how that looks.

I'll go back to the genus page, refresh. Now every genus is related to the same two users. Cool, a step in the right direction. It's basically as simple as that. The only other thing I want to show you with ... Now it's interesting is, how exactly did that work? What happens in reality when you use the fixtures is that when you say fun fact here, the fixtures library calls set fun fact on your object. It does that because the fun fact property, along with all of our other properties, is private. It uses the setter to access it. You'll notice we have genus scientists here. We do not have a set genus scientist method. All we have is an add genus scientist method.

Well cool thing is, the fixtures library is smart enough to realize that; because it doesn't see a set genus scientist, but instead sees an add genus scientist, it just calls the add genus scientist method and passes two times: once for each of these two user objects. The fixtures library is doing some fun things behind the scenes. The only way this could be better is if it was a little bit more random so I'll so you a trick to do that. Clear out the array and instead, in quotes, say 3x@user.aquanaut_* and that's it. This is a special syntax for the Alice Fixtures Library that says I want you to call this three times and put it into an array. That will give every genus three random aquanaut users.

Let's try it. Go back. Refresh the fixtures. Then head back and refresh. Now we have three random ones for each genus. Pretty cool way to do that.
