# Disable HTML5 Validation

Leave everything blank and hit save. It doesn’t submit. Instead we get this field validation error. So where’s that coming from? It’s not server. side validation. That was HTML5 validation.  And it’s coming because when Symfony renders your field, it’s rendering it with a required equals required attribute, and that activates that HTML5 client. side validation.  Now, there are a couple problems with this.  First of all, Symfony always renders a field with required equals required, even if it’s not required in the database.  It’s borderline a bug in Symfony.  And actually, that’s not entirely true.  There is some intelligence with field guessing, so sometimes that won’t be rendered. But most of the time, Symfony’s just gonna blindly say that your field has required on the client side an attribute.  The second thing that’s a problem is even if we like this HTML5 client. side validation, we would still need to add server. side validation, because somebody can just skip this validation.  And now you need to maintain two sets of validation rules.  

So here’s what I do.  I disable HTML5 validation, and rely purely on server. side validation.  If you still want some really fancy client. side validation instead of relying on HTML5, you should use a true client side Java script solution to render those.  There are even bundles that will render your server. side validation rules so that the client. side library can use those and give you a really nice experience on the front end.  That’s more flexible than HTML5 validation anyways, because you can’t actually control these messages or how they look very easily.  So how do we disable HTML5 validation across the board?  Very simple.  Find our submit button, and add form no validate.  And that’s it.  Refresh the page now and submit.  No more HTML5 validation.  But of course now, we’re going to need to add some server. side validation.
