# Fixtures Alice

 We can get some dummy data into our system right now to play with by going to our slash genus slash new endpoint, and it’s working pretty well, but as our system grows, we’re going to want to add more dummy data, like users, genuses, genuses, notes that users make.  We’re going to need a lot more data to make this code interesting.  So how about a systematic way to create great test data called fixtures.  Look up doctrine fixtures bundle.  This is one that does exactly that. Well, it does most of that.  Grab the composer require line. Click over and paste that in.  But hold on.  I also want you to add Nelmio slash Alice.  Another library.  Not a bundle.  It’s going to make our fixtures amazing.
Now notice the dash dash dev flag.  That means this is going to be added to our required dev area and composed adjacent, which really doesn’t matter, but technically when you deploy, you can have composer install only your main dependencies.  So the dev section is for stuff that you only need for development or testing purposes.  Next up, of course, is to grab the new bundle line, then an app kernel, and we’ll paste that in there.  Notice this time we’re actually pasting it in the dev slash test section, so this actually isn’t available in the prod environment.  So anything that adds to our system, we don’t need that to be added in the prod environment so we’ll just add it just in these.  
Now to create fixtures, we’re going to create fixture class.  We’re going to do something cooler than this in a second, but just bear with me.  And the way this works is, you need to have a data fixtures slash ORM directory in your bundle, which for some reason did not show up for me at first.  And in there we’re just going to create classes, and we actually only need one class.  We need a PHP class called load fixtures.  Name is not important.  Now paste the basic fixture class that I just stole from this documentation and update the class name to be load fixtures.  And of course in here we’re not going to create users, we’re going to create genuses, and we can steal the code from our new action which already creates a pretty nice random genus.  We can paste it right there, and you see this actually passes as the object manager and the entity manager, so we can just pass our genus down there.  
Make sure that you have the you statement for your genus class, and only one name choice.  Once you have a class that looks like this, you can run over and kind of like the migrations bundle, this actually gives us a new console command, doctrine, fixtures, load.  And this actually clears out your database and then runs all of your fixture classes and you get the result.  So now if we go back to our list page we have our one random genus.  So so far cool sort of, but a little underwhelming.  Now here’s where things get really really fun.  We also installed another bundle.  Google for Nelmio Alice and find their GitHub page.  So here’s what this library is.  This library allows you to write Nelmio files and create fixtures that way.  It has a really really expressive syntax, and it also has a bunch of built in functions that generate random data.  It actually uses another library called faker for all of those random data functions.  
So in that same ORM directory now, we’re putting in a file called fixtures dot YML, and start with the class name that we want to add.  So, app bundle slash entity slash genus.  Let’s create 10 genuses.  So we’ll give each one an internal name.  This doesn’t matter.  But instead of doing 10 whole entries, we can actually use this cool syntax where we say genus underscore one dot dot 10, and just by doing that it’s actually going to loop over and create 10 genus objects.  And below that, we’re going to put the names of our properties.  So name, colon, and it’ll actually use a built in faker function called name, and then sub family, use another built in faker function called text 20, and the functions are denoted by having the less than sign, the name of the function, and the greater than sign.
And then species count, we can use a function called number between 100 and 100,000, and then fun fact, we’ll have faker do a random sentence, and that’s it.  To use this file, you can actually get rid of all our code inside this function and simply say fixtures, auto complete that, load, and it’ll pass it the files we want.  Which is underscore underscore DIR underscore underscore dot slash fixtures dot YML and then past the entity manager is the second.  And run fixtures is the exact same command.  So run that, but now refresh your list page, and viola, we have 10 completely random genuses.  Now the name of every genus is actually the name of a person, which is pretty ridiculous, so we’ll fix that in a second.  But real quick, in Nelmio’s documentation, there’s a lot of examples of crazy things you can do inside of here.
One of the biggest things that you’re going to want to look at is actually the faker library that it integrates, because it’s going to tell you all of these built in functions that we were just creating, like a number between, random word sentence, and all of that.  So a lot of tools here built in automatically.  Now if we can just make the genus name a little more realistic.  
