# Relation Query Joins

Since we’re going to turn this into a proper query for genus note, we’re going to need a custom query which means we need a genus note repository. So we’ll copy genus repository to genus note repository, rename that and then clear out the method and here we’re making new public function find all recent notes for genus and we’ll have of course a genus argument. Excellent. Now we’re starting simple here by just return. This arrow create query builder, genus underscore note. That’s the alias we’re giving our table or entity for this query. 

That could be anything, but I usually call that standard and let’s just say get query, arrow, execute. So right now we’re actually going to return every single genus note temporarily. Now to wire this up, don’t forget you need to go the genus note entity and go to at ORM slash entity and add repository class is genus note repository and then the genus controller, we can just start using this. 

So recent notes equals EM, get repository at bundle colon genus note arrow find all recent notes for genus and pass the genus object that we queried for a little bit earlier. So with any luck, temporarily we should be able to flip over and see that six go to 100 and it does and that’s so awesome except for my really lame typo on the word recent, embarrassing for me. Let’s fix that. Okay. Now let’s make our query a little bit more interesting. So this is the first time we’re querying across relationship and I’m going to show you both sides of the way you’re doing it and this one is actually pretty easy. 

We just want to first add an and where, genus underscore note dot genus is equal to a particular genus and we’ll fill in colon genus with the genus object. Now this might seem weird to you. In a database, we would want to query for genus note where genus underscore ID equals a particular ID, like five, but remember these are property names. So if we say genus underscore note dot genus, we can do that because there’s a genus property. So you will query across the relationship. You use the genus property and then you’ll actually pass the whole genus object. 

Now of course, behind the scenes, doctrine simply converts that into a where clause for genus underscore ID equals this genus’ ID. So this might look weird at first, but it’s the same thing that you always do and if you want you can actually pass the ID as the parameter value instead of the entire object and then to finish this off, we’ll also add another and where, genus note, dot created at is greater than colon recent date. No fill on that set parameter with recent date is new slash date time minus three months. Perfect. 

So I’ll head back. Refresh. This should go back to six. It does and the difference now is it’s making a more efficient query than it was before because it’s only returning the six note objects to do this and if you wanted to you can make this query even more efficient by literally returning just the number six with the count and it’s at least six genus note objects. 

It’s all about custom queries in our doctrine queries tutorial. I want to show you how to query from the other side of the relationship, from genus to genus note and I want to show you what a join looks like. So here’s the setup. Go to just slash genus and right now this is ordered by the number of species that are in each genus. I want to order it by which one has the most recent activity. So which one has the most recent genus note? So we’re going to order by a totally different column. 

So I’ll close genus note repository and open genus repository and this is the query that we’re using on that page. Find all published ordered by size. I’m going to change that to find all published ordered by recently active and I’ll copy that and go into genus controller and the list, I’ll paste that. I could have also right clicked on gone to refactor rename and it would change both instances of that all at once. 

So that’s a really good PHP strong trick to use and down here get rid of the order by and order by genus note dot created at, but you guys how SQL queries work. We’re only dealing with the genus table here so we can’t automatically order by that unless we do a left join to it. So say arrow left join genus because that’s our main table alias dot notes and to join you actually reference the property on genus that we’re reaching across. So remember this is the optional inverse side of the relationship that we added and this is a second reason you would need it. 

If you want to do left joins from genus down to genus notes then you need to have that mapped. The second one I’m going to left join is going to be genus underscore note. That is the alias that you give this new join table so you can start using – referencing genus note. So we’ll add order by genus underscore note dot created at descending and that should be it. Head back. Refresh. And it’s definitely in a slightly order. If we look at the first one, this one has something from February 15 which is pretty darn new. 

The second one is the latest one is from February 11. So yeah, it looks like it worked and if we go all the way down to the bottom, this is from December 21 which is pretty long ago. So that’s it. We’re going to know more about querying cost relationships and all that complicated stuff. We’ll look at our doctrine queries. One thing to notice is that by default even though we joined across another table, we are still getting the same result set back. 

We’re still getting back an array of genus objects. So the join didn’t affect the results we got back. It just allowed us to make a more targeted query. All right, guys. You – there is more to learn about doctrine, but you are really, really dangerous right now. I hope you absolutely love it. So let’s keep going and we’re keep going and we’re get on with the symphony series with a totally different topic. Forms. All right, guys. See you next time. 
