# Named Arguments

As you saw, sometimes you only need to pass one argument in and the rest can be auto wired. In this case, I've chosen to pass in the second argument to mark down transformer. Now that's actually because there are multiple instances of the cash object in my container. But I wanted auto wiring to work for the first one. So you can use this empty quotes and text. But the empty quotes and text is just weird. It looks weird. So in Symphony 3.3, there's a better way.

In markdown transforming, you notice the names of our arguments are a marked down [inaudible 00:00:40] and cash. And this is the argument that we want to specify. So what we can do is we can actually instead, I'll copy my service ID, you can have the arguments key and then we'd say dollar sign cash colon and then paste the argument. The dollar sign is the important part here. That's how Symphony knows that we're actually calling this out by its argument name. Cash here must match cash there. And to prove it's working, we'll refresh right now. Everything is still happy.

Now wait a second, cause this might be setting off some alarms for you. Cause normally, when I'm coding, I should think that's it's safe for me to rename this variable to something else. Cash driver, cash driver, right? That shouldn't make any difference at all. I am perfectly allowed to do that. And it shouldn't affect any thing outside of this class.

But now, check this out. We have a bug in our code. Because we have cash here. So that's a problem, right? Actually, it's not a problem. If you refresh now, you're going to get a huge error. And this is not just happening because we happen to be using a markdown transforming this page. This error would happen if you tried to refresh any page across your entire system. Symphony is going through all of your services and validating their configuration to make sure they make sense. And it saw a problem. It saw an argument called cash when there is no argument called cash. It means that if you accidentally, if you change a name of an argument to something, thinking it won't affect anything, you're not going to get very far. Symphony's going to yell at you. It's going to tell you that you need to change that argument. When you refresh now, it works.

So it feels like there's a lot of magic going on, but it's been done the Symphony way. It's been done the way where if there's any question about anything, we throw in an exception. And we throw in an exception at compile time, which means no surprises. It's not possible for you to have some weird error on some page that you don't use very often. All of your errors happen immediately.

